.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1999 by David S. Miller.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 2001 Sun Microsystems
.\" Copyright 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\" 
.\"	.An - list of n alternative values as in "flav vanilla|strawberry"
.\"
.de A1
\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP
..
.de A2
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP
..
.de A3
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP
..
.de A4
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP
..
.\" 
.\"	.Bn - same as above but framed by square brackets
.\"
.de B1
[\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP]
..
.de B2
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP]
..
.de B3
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP]
..
.de B4
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP]
..
.TH CHCLI 8 "July 2010" "Project Hail"
.SH NAME
chcli \- Issue command to data storage service (chunkd)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chcli
.RB [ options ]
.I command
.RB [ command-args ]

.B chcli \-?|\-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI chcli
is used as a command line interface to the chunkd data storage service.

.I command
is the name of the command corresponding to the operation chunkd should
perform:
get
put
del
ping
checkstatus
checkstart

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-? \-\-help
Shows a short help message.
.TP
.B \-c \-\-config
Load key=value text configuration file.  This permits easy reuse and
scripting of frequently used options.  See CONFIG FILE section for more
details.
.TP
.B \-\-create
When opening a table, create the specified table, if it does not already
exist.
.TP
.B \-D \-\-debug
Set debug verbosity level.  0 == none, 2 == max verbosity.
.TP
.B \-h \-\-host
Set host and TCP port to which chcli should connect, for the chunkd data
object service.
.TP
.B \-i \-\-input
Obtain value portion of a key/value pair from the specified file, rather
than the command line.
.TP
.B \-k \-\-key
Obtain key portion of a key/value pair from the specified file,
rather than the command line.  Keys provided on the command line
(as opposed to via -k) are stored with a C-style nul terminating
character appended, adding 1 byte to each key.  If the command is copy (CP),
this represents the destination key.
.TP
.B \-s \-\-src
Obtain source-key portion of a source-key/source-value pair from the
specified file, rather than the command line.  Keys provided on the
command line (as opposed to via -s) are stored with a C-style nul
terminating character appended, adding 1 byte to each key.
.TP
.B \-\-list-cmds
List all supported commands, and a short command usage synopsis.
.TP
.B \-o \-\-output
Send any GET output to the specified file, rather than stdout.
.TP
.B \-S \-\-ssl
Enable TLS/SSL channel security (default disabled).
.TP
.B \-t \-\-table
Retrieve and store data in the specified table's dataspace.
.TP
.B \-u \-\-user
Set username to USER.
.TP
.B \-v \-\-verbose
Enable verbose libhail output.
.TP
.B \-V \-\-version
Print program version, and exit.
.PD
.RE
.SH COMMANDS
The following commands are available:
.TP
.B GET key
Retrieve the data object associated with the specified key.
.TP
.B GETPART key offset length
Retrieve a subset of the data object associated with the specified key,
starting at given offset, for the given length.
.TP
.B PUT key val
Store data object associated with the specified key.
.TP
.B DEL key
Delete data object associated with the specified key.
.TP
.B PING
Ping server
.TP
.B CHECKSTATUS
Fetch status of server self-check
.TP
.B CHECKSTART
Begin server self-check
.TP
.B CP dest-key src-key
Copy object represented by 'src-key' into new object referenced
by 'dest-key'
.TP
Keys provided on the command line (as opposed to via -k) are stored
with a C-style nul terminating character appended, adding 1 byte to
each key.
.SH CONFIG FILE
To avoid repeating commonly specified command line options such as
.B \-\-host
or
.B \-\-table
a key=value text configuration file facility is available.
.TP
The format of the config file is similar to .INI files, a simple
key=value text file divided into sections by 
[ section names surrounded by brackets ]
.TP
Our configuration file is headed by a single section, [global],
followed by zero or more of the following key=value pairs:
.TP
.B host=HOST:PORT
Mimics \-\-host
.TP
.B table=my_table_name
Mimics \-\-table
.TP
.B username=guest
Mimics \-\-user
.TP
.B password=hello
Specifies password for authentication.
.TP
.B verbose=1
Mimics \-\-verbose.
.TP
.B ssl=1
Mimics \-\-ssl.
.TP
.B debug=1
Mimics \-\-debug.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chcli
is available over the Web at
http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/network/distsrv/hail/

