.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1999 by David S. Miller.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 2001 Sun Microsystems
.\" Copyright 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\" 
.\"	.An - list of n alternative values as in "flav vanilla|strawberry"
.\"
.de A1
\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP
..
.de A2
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP
..
.de A3
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP
..
.de A4
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP
..
.\" 
.\"	.Bn - same as above but framed by square brackets
.\"
.de B1
[\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP]
..
.de B2
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP]
..
.de B3
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP]
..
.de B4
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP]
..
.TH CHUNKD 8 "July 2010" "Project Hail"
.SH NAME
chunkd \- single-node data storage service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chunkd
.RB [ options ]

.B chunkd \-?|\-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI chunkd
provides a single-node, networked, key/value data storage service.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-? \-\-help
Shows a short help message.
.TP
.B \-C \-\-config
Specify master configuration file.
.TP
.B \-D \-\-debug
Set debug verbosity level.  0 == none, 2 == max verbosity.
.TP
.B \-E \-\-stderr
Switch logging from syslog to standard error (stderr) output.
.TP
.B \-F \-\-foreground
Run daemon in foreground, do not fork.  Commonly used for debugging
purposes.
.TP
.B \-P \-\-pid
Write daemon process id to specified file.
.TP
.B \-\-strict-free
Carefully free allocated object, rather than letting the operating
system clean up after a process exists.  This enables improved tracking
by valgrind and similar debugging systems.
.TP
.B \-V \-\-version
Print program version, and exit.
.PD
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B chunkd
is available over the Web at
http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/network/distsrv/hail/

