.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1999 by David S. Miller.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 2001 Sun Microsystems
.\" Copyright 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
.\" This file may be copied under the terms of the GNU Public License.
.\" 
.\"	.An - list of n alternative values as in "flav vanilla|strawberry"
.\"
.de A1
\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP
..
.de A2
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP
..
.de A3
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP
..
.de A4
\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP
..
.\" 
.\"	.Bn - same as above but framed by square brackets
.\"
.de B1
[\\fB\\$1\\fP|\\fB\\$2\\fP]
..
.de B2
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP]
..
.de B3
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP]
..
.de B4
[\\fB\\$1\\fP\ \\fB\\$2\\fP|\\fB\\$3\\fP|\\fB\\$4\\fP|\\fB\\$5\\fP]
..
.TH CLD 8 "July 2010" "Project Hail"
.SH NAME
cld \- reliable file storage service for small files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cld
.RB [ options ]

.B cld \-?|\-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BI cld
provides one instance of a reliable, networked file storage service
for small files.  Used as a base layer of a cloud computing system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-? \-\-help
Shows a short help message.
.TP
.B \-d \-\-data
Store database environment in specified directory.
.TP
.B \-D \-\-debug
Set debug verbosity level.  0 == none, 2 == max verbosity.
.TP
.B \-E \-\-stderr
Switch logging from syslog to standard error (stderr) output.
.TP
.B \-F \-\-foreground
Run daemon in foreground, do not fork.  Commonly used for debugging
purposes.
.TP
.B \-p \-\-port
Bind to specified UDP port.
.TP
.B \-\-port-file
Write automatically-discovered UDP listen port to specified file.
.TP
.B \-P \-\-pid
Write daemon process id to specified file.
.TP
.B \-\-strict-free
Carefully free allocated object, rather than letting the operating
system clean up after a process exists.  This enables improved tracking
by valgrind and similar debugging systems.
.TP
.B \-V \-\-version
Print program version, and exit.
.PD
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cld
is available over the Web at
http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/network/distsrv/hail/

